.TH AFF "1" "December 2024" "TextUtils v2.0.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
aff \- add an affix to each input line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aff
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... [\fI\,AFFIX\/\fR] [\fI\,FILE\/\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Add AFFIX to each line of input, by default as a prefix.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-expression\fR
Execute AFFIX as a python expression for each line.
The variable 'i' can be used in your expression, and contains the 0-indexed line number.
The value \fBreturned\fR by the expression will be appended to each line.
Uses 'eval' and so should be used with caution.
Mutually exclusive with -E/--shell-expr.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-shell\-expr\fR
Execute AFFIX as a shell command for each line.
The environment variable '$AFF_LINE_NUM' can be used in your expression, and contains the 0-indexed line number.
In effect, this sticks the STDOUT of your expression as the affix.
Mutually exclusive with -e/--expression.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-skip\-header\fR
Treat the first line as a header, and do not apply the affix to it.
This header line will in effect be echoed uneditted to STDOUT.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-number\-from\fR=\fI\,NUM\/\fR
When in -e or -E mode, start counting the line number variable from NUM as opposed to 0.
Allows for a simple offset when using the line number for math, for example.
Note that the line number starts at 0 for the first modified line.
I.e. -B/--skip-header will cause counting to start at the second line rather than the first.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-space\fR
Calculate or apply the AFFIX placing a standard space ' ' between the affix and the line.
Applies for both a prefix (default) or as a suffix (-S/--suffix).
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-suffix\fR
Apply AFFIX as a suffix (i.e. at the end of the input line) rather than as an affix (i.e. at the start of the input line).
The line's original newline will be removed and placed after the suffix.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tab\fR
Calculate or apply the AFFIX placing a standard tab '\\t' between the affix and the line.
Applies for both a prefix (default) or as a suffix (-S/--suffix).
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a short help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display a version information message and exit.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by HobbitJack.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 HobbitJack.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH BUGS
This program acts like \fBsponge(1)\fR in that it collects all input first before doing anything.
This is a Python thing and is a limitation of the standard I/O routines.
If you want to e.g. timestamp STDIN, this program is unable to do that.
