.TH DEL "1" "December 2024" "TextUtils v1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
del \- delete lines containing filter strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B del
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... [\fI\,FILTER\/\fR]... [\fI\,FILE\/\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Remove all lines containing any FILTER
This acts something like negating a \fBgrep(1)\fR but is designed with tab-delimited files with headers in mind.
Note that this program only matches literal strings.
If you need to match REGEX patterns, use \fBgrep(1)\fR.
By default this program will match against any string containing any FILTER.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exact\fR
Compare each FILTER against the line or field (if -f/--fields is set) exactly, matching only if the entire line or field is a FILTER.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fields\fR
Compare each FILTER against each field in the line (by default delimited by tab '\\t').
Without -e/--exact set, this has no effect unless the separator character is included in the pattern (in which case this will never match).
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-keep\-header\fR
Assume the first line of input is a header line and do not attempt to match against it.
This ensures the header line will always pass through regardless of settings.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-negate\fR
Makes this program act like \fBgrep(1)\fR in that lines not matching any FILTER are removed.
In most cases you should probbaly use that program instead, unless you need a header line preserved.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-separator\fR=\fI\,SEPARATOR\/\fR
When -f/--fields is set, use SEPARATOR as the field delimiter instead of the default tab ('\\t').
No effect if -f/--fields is not set.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-start\-with\fR
Only match each FILTER against the start of each line.
Can be comined with -W/--end-with.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-end\-with\fR
Only match each FILTER against the end of each line.
Can be comined with -w/--start-with.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a short help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display a version information message and exit.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by HobbitJack.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 HobbitJack.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgrep(1)\fR
