.TH WSTRIP "1" "December 2024" "TextUtils v1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wstrip \- strip whitespace from a line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wstrip
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... [\fI\,FILE\/\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Strip leading and trailing whitespace characters from each line of input, then print each line to STDOUT separated by newlines.
By default, will not change the total number of lines in the output.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-empty\-line\fR
Completely remove lines consisting only of whitespace.
This will therefore reduce the number of lines in the output compared to the input.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-field\fR
For each field in the line (by default, delimited by the standard tab '\\t'), strip all whitespace between the leading/trailing separator characters and the text of those fields.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-fields\fR=\fI\,FIELDS\/\fR
For each field in FIELDS (by default, delimited by the standard tab '\\t'), strip all whitespace between the leading/trailing separator characters and the text of those fields.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-separator\fR=\fI\,SEPARATOR\/\fR
Use SEPARATOR as the field delimiter instead of the default tab ('\\t').
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a short help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display a version information message and exit.
.PP
For full documentation, try 'man wstrip'.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by HobbitJack.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 HobbitJack.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
